# TwitchEDA
Twitch Exploratory Data Analysts 

Exploratory data analyses were conducted using the following Twitch dataset, and both intuitive (visualization) and rigorous (statistical) information were obtained. The Twitch dataset displays 1,000 rows of data from content creator’s channels collected in March 2022, sourced from Kaggle.com. Descriptive statistics were first performed through Python to explore the dataset. The dataset consisted of 7 integer data types, 2 boolean data types, 2 object data types and 1 float data type; there were no missing values. Within the data, the mean was larger than the median overall, suggesting that the data was skewed to the right. A violin plot illustrated the skew of the data and the contributing outliers. The outliers for the columns of watch time, average views per channel, and views gained were examined in particular as they best indicate the popularity of a content creator’s channel. It was inferred that watch time is comprised of both the stream time and the time of videos on demand (VOD) which shows the total amount of time people watch a channel’s content. This column is important because it displays the amount of people viewing a certain channel’s content. Finally, the views gained column displayed the amount of views a channel gained/lost from the previous month. Views gained demonstrates the health of the channel, suggesting that the channel is attracting more views.  
	Forty-nine percent of the channels primarily speak English. English-speaking channels make up the majority of the dataset, which will cause a language bias in future analyses. Another bias may come from the fact that 77% of channels are not rated as mature. There is a massive occurrence of partnered channels in this dataset, where 98% of channels were partnered with Twitch in March 2022. A heat map was created to display the correlation of watch time and language of a channel. Results indicated that English-speaking channels had the highest correlation with watch time, r=0.094. Pearson’s chi-square test were conducted. The majority the unique values of language are not independent to the maturity rate when a= 0.05.  Another chi-square test was conducted to test the independence between language and partnership status. Results demonstrated  there were not enough information for a response when alpha= 0.05.
